# Rust Trait-based Collection

This project is a collection of data structures that implement the `Collection` trait, allowing for a common interface
for all the data structures in this crate. This crate is intended to be a proof of concept a common interface for all
the data structures in [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/).

## Summary

This crate contains three major traits:

- `Collection`: A trait that defines the basic operations of a collection.
- `FixedSizeCollection`: A trait that defines the basic operations of a collection with a fixed size.
- `Iterators`: A trait that encapsulates all the iterators of a collection.

This crate contains the following data structures:

- `Queue`: A `FIFO` data structure based on linked nodes.
- `Deque`: A `FIFO` and `LIFO` data structure based on linked nodes.
- `CircularDeque`: A `FIFO` and `LIFO` data structure based on a circular array.
- `Stack`: A `LIFO` data structure based on a linked nodes.
- `ArrayStack`: A `LIFO` data structure based on a fixed size array.
- `BinaryHeap`: A `PriorityQueue` data structure based on a binary heap.

For more information, please refer to the individual documentation of each data structure. This can be generated by
running `cargo doc --open`.

## Installation

From crates.io:

```toml
[dependencies]
trait-based-collection = "0.1"
```

Alternatively, you can clone this repository and build it from source:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ferranSanchezLlado/rust-data-structures.git
cd r
cargo install --force --path .
```

If there are installation errors, ensure that your toolchain is up-to-date. For the latest, run:

```bash
rustup update
```

## Example

```rust
use trait_based_collection::{import, Queue};
import!();

fn main() {
    let mut q = queue![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
    println!("Queue: {:?}", q);
    println!("Queue size: {}", q.len());
    println!("Queue is empty: {}", q.is_empty());
    
    q.add(6);
    q.remove();
    for i in q.iter() {
        println!("Queue element: {}", i);
    }
}
```

## Future work

Data Structures to implement:
- [ ] Binary Search Tree
- [ ] AVL Tree
- [ ] Red-Black Tree
- [ ] Fibonacci Heap
- [ ] HashMap
- [ ] HashSet
- [ ] Graph
- [ ] Vector
